docs: instructions for adding a repository into gitea (#3988)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/2.1/install/air-gapped/catalog/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug

> navigationTitle: Hosting on Gitea

Reviewer: ```suggestion
navigationTitle: Host on Gitea
```

> title: Hosting on Gitea

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Host on Gitea
```

menuWeight: 10

> excerpt: How to host git repositories on Gitea for airgapped deployments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: How to host git repositories on Gitea for air gapped deployments
```

---

> DKP Supports using an external catalog git repository to install applications. In cases where an external repository is not accessible from within the cluster, it is possible to use the Gitea server that comes out-of-box with a kommander deployment to install applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DKP supports using an external catalog git repository to install applications. In cases where an external repository is not accessible from within the cluster, it is possible to use the Gitea server that comes out-of-box with a Kommander deployment to install applications.
```

Reviewer: it is possible = you can

1. Set the `VERSION` environment variable to the version of Kommander you want to install, for example:

    ```bash
    export VERSION=v2.1.1
    ```

1. Set the `TARGET_NAMESPACE` to the workspace (or project) namespace in which the catalog repository needs to be created.

    ```bash
    export TARGET_NAMESPACE=<WORKSPACE_OR_PROJECT_NAMESPACE>
    ```

1. Create environment variables that contain the Gitea credentials:

    ```bash
    GITEA_USERNAME=$(kubectl get secrets -nkommander-flux kommander-git-credentials -oyaml -o go-template="{{.data.username | base64decode }}")
    GITEA_PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secrets -nkommander-flux kommander-git-credentials -oyaml -o go-template="{{.data.password | base64decode }}")
    ```

> 1. Using the above username and password, follow the steps below to login to the gitea UI and create a new repository in the `kommander` organization.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Using the above username and password, follow the steps below to log in to the Gitea UI and create a new repository in the `kommander` organization.   
```

    
    ```bash
    GITEA_URL=$(kubectl -n kommander get ingress gitea -o go-template='https://{{ (index .status.loadBalancer.ingress 0).hostname }}:443/dkp/kommander/git')
    ```

> 1. Login to the Gitea dashboard at `GITEA_URL` with the `GITEA_USERNAME` and `GITEA_PASSWORD` credentials. Create a new repository named `dkp-catalog-applications` (or any other name you prefer) under `kommander` organization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Log in to the Gitea dashboard at `GITEA_URL` with the `GITEA_USERNAME` and `GITEA_PASSWORD` credentials. Create a new repository named `dkp-catalog-applications` (or any other name you prefer) under `kommander` organization.
```

1. Clone the newly created repository on your local machine:

    ```bash

>     git clone -c http.sslVerify=false https://$GITEA_USERNAME:$GITEA_PASSWORD@$GITEA_URL/kommander/dkp-catalog-applications

Reviewer 3: Our security-aware customers will not like this. Please add instructions using the CA file from the cluster

Reviewer 3: A kind of more secure way (at least one that doesn't completely bypass certificate checks) would be
```
k -n kommander get secret kommander-traefik-certificate -o go-template='{{index .data "ca.crt"|base64decode}}' > /tmp/ca.crt && git clone -c http.sslCAInfo=/tmp/ca.crt https://$(k -n kommander get secret admin-git-credentials -o go-template='{{.data.username|base64decode}}:{{.data.password|base64decode}}')@$((k -n kommander get cm konvoyconfig-kubeaddons -o go-template='{{if ne .data.clusterHostname ""}}{{.data.clusterHostname}}{{"\n"}}{{end}}' && k -n kommander get ingress gitea -o jsonpath="{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0]['ip','hostname']}") | head -1)/dkp/kommander/git/kommander/kommander && rm /tmp/ca.crt
```

Author: i replaced `&&` with `;` so that this doesnt fail when if `cm` is not present (not that it ever would be, just in case). 

Updated the instructions to create a new gitea user instead of copying kommander user credentials.

    ```

> 1. Download and extract the catalog repository bundle on to your local machine from the download portal and extract the contents into `dkp-catalog-applications` cloned earlier:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Download and extract the catalog repository bundle to your local machine from the download portal and extract the contents into the `dkp-catalog-applications` repository cloned in the above step:
```

    ```bash
    curl -fsSL https://github.com/mesosphere/dkp-catalog-applications/archive/refs/tags/$VERSION.tar.gz | tar zxf - --strip-components=1 -C dkp-catalog-applications
    ```

1. Navigate into the `dkp-catalog-applications` directory and push the changes:

    ```bash
    cd dkp-catalog-applications
    git add .
    git commit -m "feat: initialize dkp-catalog-applications for airgapped"
    git push --set-upstream origin master
    ```

1. Run the following command to create a secret containing Gitea credentials in `TARGET_NAMESPACE`:

    ```bash
    kubectl create secret generic -n${TARGET_NAMESPACE} ${TARGET_NAMESPACE} --type opaque \
        --from-literal=caFile="$(kubectl get secrets -nkommander-flux kommander-git-credentials -o template='{{ .data.caFile | base64decode }}')" \
        --from-literal=username="$(kubectl get secrets -nkommander-flux kommander-git-credentials -o template='{{ .data.username | base64decode }}')" \

>         --from-literal=password="$(kubectl get secrets -nkommander-flux kommander-git-credentials -o template='{{ .data.password | base64decode }}')"

Author: we MUST copy username/password because we disable anonymous clones in our gitea installation https://github.com/mesosphere/kommander-applications/blob/main/services/gitea/4.1.1/defaults/cm.yaml#L33 explicitly cc @mikolajb @makkes feel free to suggest any optimizations we can do in this guide.

Reviewer 3: This will grant any user on the attached cluster admin access to the management cluster's Git repo which is not something we should encourage. Users should rather create users in Gitea that only have access to that specific repository.

Author: actually the secret needs to be created on mgmt cluster as well as managed clusters. mgmt cluster secret is used by gitrepository_apps controller to create apps. managed cluster secret is used by services deployed on them. i ll update the note saying that this secret needs to be created on both.

Author: Updated the instructions to create a new gitea user instead of copying kommander user credentials.

    ```

>     **NOTE**: This command needs to be run in ALL target clusters that belong to the specific Workspace or Project. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>This command needs to be run in ALL target clusters that belong to the specific Workspace or Project.</p>
```

>     **NOTE**: This command needs to be run in ALL target clusters that belong to the specific Workspace or Project. 

Reviewer 3: This note should be above the command and with the added information that `kubectl` must be pointed to the target cluster first before running it. Otherwise people will just run it, create the secret on the management cluster and only then see the note which is annoying.

Author: actually the secret needs to be created on mgmt cluster as well as managed clusters. mgmt cluster secret is used by gitrepository_apps controller to create apps. managed cluster secret is used by services deployed on them. i ll update the note saying that this secret needs to be created on both.

1. Finally, run the following command to create the catalog `GitRepository`:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
    kind: GitRepository
    metadata:
      name: dkp-catalog-applications
      namespace: ${TARGET_NAMESPACE}
      labels:

>         kommander.d2iq.io/gitapps-gitrepository-type: catalog

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        kommander.d2iq.io/gitapps-gitrepository-type: catalog
        kommander.d2iq.io/gitrepository-type: catalog
```

    spec:
      interval: 1m0ss
      ref:

>         branch: master

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        tag: v2.1.1
```

Author: actually it should be `branch: master` unless user creates a tag `v2.1.1` on their gitea repo. so this is fine as-is.
